Course MATH 540@UIUC

# Reference
- nabla: https://ppasupat.github.io/a9online/wtf-is/nabla.html

# Guide
> Took the class with him back in 2018. I would say his exams are pretty similar to the comps, for example: [https://math.illinois.edu/system/files/2021-02/MATH 540 - Jan 2021.pdf](https://math.illinois.edu/system/files/2021-02/MATH%20540%20-%20Jan%202021.pdf) . The homework from folland's book is kind of easy compare to the exams. I mean, this is a comprehensive exam class for the Math PhD people, so you shouldn't expect it to be any less, and real analysis is known to be hard for many people.

# Textbook
Gerald B. Folland, Real Analysis
[Sol1](https://people.umass.edu/bban/Solutions.html), [Sol2](https://www.math.wustl.edu/~sawyer/m5051f09/hwindex.html)

# CH0
## Reminder
- Do algebra with $\mu(E)$ carefully, since it can be infinity.

## Notation
- X: (in plain text) the universal set.
- $\mathcal{E}$: (mathcal in tex) a collection of subsets.
- $A, E$: (in tex) a set.
- $\mathcal{P}(X)$: the power set $\{E:E\subset X\}$.
- $\cup A_{j}$ is by default countable union(or in other symbol, summation/intersection) $\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j}$. Arbitrary union will be stressed by using $\cup_{\alpha}^{\infty} A_{\alpha}$.
- ":=" means this is definition, or can be done by definition.
## Set theory
Nota. $A \subset B$: A can be B.

Nota. A set $A$ is smaller than set $B$ is defined as $A \subset B$ but $A \ne B$.

> Def. (**Product set $X \times Y$**)

> Def. (**map**)

> Def. (**todo**) Let $\{X_{\alpha}\}_{\alpha \in A}$ be an indexed collection of nonempty sets, $X:=\prod_{\alpha \in A} X_{\alpha}$, and $\pi_{\alpha}: X \to X_{\alpha}$ the coordinate maps.
> 
> $f: A \to \bigcup_{\alpha \in A} X_{\alpha}$.

> Def. (**Arbitrary infinite sum**) For a set E, $\sum_{x \in E} f(x):=\sup \{\sum_{x\in F} f(x): \text{finite set } F \subset E \}$.

> Def. (**Set limit**) Given $A_{1}, A_{2}, \dots \in \mathcal{F}$, 
$$\limsup_{n \to  \infty}A_{n}:=\bigcap_{m=1}^{\infty} \bigcup_{n=m}^{ \infty} A_{n}=\bigcap_{m=1}^{\infty} B_m=\{\omega \in \Omega : \omega \in  A_{n} \text{ for infinitely many n}\}$$

$$\liminf_{n\to  \infty}A_{n}:=\bigcup_{m=1}^{  \infty} \bigcap_{n=m}^{ \infty} A_{n}=\bigcup_{m=1}^{\infty} C_m=\{\omega \in \Omega : \omega \in  A_{n} \text{ for all but finitely many n}\}$$

Recall:
1. $f$ is continuous at x if $\forall \{x_{n}\}, x_{n} \to x, n \to  \infty \Longrightarrow \lim_{n \to  \infty} f(x_{n})= f(\lim_{n\to\infty} x_{n} ) = f(x)$.
2. $\limsup_{n}x_{n}=\lim_{m \to  \infty} \sup_{n \ge m} x_{n}=\lim_{m \to  \infty} c_{m}$, where $c_m$ is monotonic, so that it must converge if we include $\pm \infty$.

Proof. 
Consider $\omega \in RHS$ or not. If yes, $\omega \in B_{m}, \forall m$; if not, disappear eventually.

Proof. 
Consider $\omega \in RHS$ or not. If yes, appear eventually; otherwise fail.

Rmk. $\liminf A_{n} \subset \limsup A_{n}$; if equal, we say $A_{n}$ converges.

E.g. Monotonic set sequence converges (if including $\infty$).

## Elementary real analysis
- Any open set on real line can be expressed as **countable** union of mutually **disjoint** open intervals.
- Compact set: for any open cover of S, there's a finite subcover for S.
- On real line: compact as long as closed + bounded, or sequentially campact.
- Arbitrary union of open set still open, arbitrary intersection of closed set still closed.
- $f:X \to Y$ is continuous on X iff for any open set U in Y, $f^{-1}(U)$ is open in X.

# CH1 Measure theory
## 1.2 $\sigma$-algebra/field
> Def. (**Algebra** of sets of X) A non-empty collection $\mathcal{A}$ of subsets of X, that is closed under finite union and complements. In other word,
1. $E_{1}, E_{2} \in \mathcal{A} \to E_{1} \cup E_{2} \in \mathcal{A}$.
2. $E\in \mathcal{A} \to E^{C} \in \mathcal{A}$.

Rmk. a) Algebra is closed under finite intersection; b) $\emptyset, X \in \mathcal{A}$. This is important when it comes to covering.

> Def. (**$\sigma$-algebra** of sets of X) A non-empty collection $\mathcal{A}$ of subsets of X, that is closed under countable union and complements. E.g. $\mathcal{A}=\{ E\in X:\text{E is co-countable} \}$.

Prop. $\mathcal{A}$ is a $\sigma$-algebra iff (a) $\mathcal{A}$ is a algebra; (b)$$E_{j} \text{ mutually disjoint}, E_{j}\in \mathcal{A} \to \bigcup_{j=1}^{\infty} E_{j} \in \mathcal{A}$$

Proof. $\cup E_{j}=\cup_{j} [E_{j} \setminus (\cup_{k<j} E_{k})] \in \mathcal{A}$. "This device of replacing a sequence of sets by a disjoint sequence is worth remembering."

Lemma. The intersection of any family of $\sigma$-algebras on X is again a $\sigma$-algebra.

> Def. (**$\sigma$-algebra generated by $\mathcal{E}$**) For $\mathcal{E} \subset \mathcal{P}(X)$, i.e. a collection of subsets of X, there's a **unique** **smallest** $\sigma$-algebra $\mathcal{M(E)}$ containing $\mathcal{E}$, namely, the intersection of all $\sigma$-algebras containing $\mathcal{E}$. 

Lemma. (1.1) $\mathcal{E\subset M(F) \implies M(E) \subset M(F)}$.

> Def. (**Toplogy** of subsets of X) A non-empty collection $\mathcal{F}$ of subsets of X , satisfying (a) $\emptyset, X \in \mathcal{F}$; (b) closed under arbitrary union; (c) closed under finite intersection.
> 
> Def. (**Toplogical space**) A pair $(X, \mathcal{F})$.

Nota. $G$ is the family of open sets in X; $F$ is the family of closed sets; $G_{\delta}$ is the countable intersection of open sets; $F_{\delta \sigma}$ is the countable union of  $F_{\delta}$ ... **G is a toplogy**.

> Def. (**Borel $\sigma$-algebra** of $(X, \mathcal{F})$) The $\mathcal{M}$(G), denoted as $\mathcal{B}_X$, where G is the aforementioned family of open sets. 

Prop. (1.2) $\mathcal{M}$(G) is the same as $\mathcal{M}(\text{open intervals})$, $\mathcal{M}(F)$, $\mathcal{M}(\text{the open rays } \{(a, \infty)\})$, $\mathcal{M}(\text{the closed rays } \{[a, \infty)\})$, etc. These will be shown in 1.5.

> Def. (**Borel set**) A Borel set is a member of $\mathcal{B}_X$. E.g. $G_{\delta}, F_{\sigma}$ are Borel set. (Many sets look like either one of these two.)

> Def. (**Product $\sigma$-algebra**) We ask for $\mathcal{B}_{\mathbb{R}^{n}} = \bigotimes_{j=1}^{n} \mathcal{B}_{\mathbb{R}}$. This definition enables it by: let $\{X_{\alpha}\}_{\alpha \in A}$ be an indexed collection of nonempty sets, $X:=\prod_{\alpha \in A} X_{\alpha}$, $\pi_{\alpha}: X \to X_{\alpha}$ the coordinate maps, and $\mathcal{M}_{\alpha}$ is a $\sigma$-algebra on $X_{\alpha}$, then define $\bigotimes \mathcal{A_{\alpha}}:=\{ \pi_{\alpha}^{-1}(E_{\alpha}):E_{\alpha} \in \mathcal{M}_{\alpha}, \alpha \in A \}$.

#NotCovered Prop 1.1-1.6
## 1.3 Measure
> Def. (**Measure** $\mu$ on **measurable space** (X, $\mathcal{A}$)) $\mu:\mathcal{M} \to [0,\infty]$, s.t.
> 1. $\mu(\emptyset)=0$;
> 2. Countable additivity ($\sigma$-additivity). If $E_{1}, E_{2}, \dots$ is a collection of **disjoint** members of $\mathcal{M}$, i.e. $E_{i} \cap E_{j} = \emptyset$ for all $i \ne j$, then $\mu(\bigcup_{i=1}^ {\infty} E_{i})=\sum_{i=1}^ {\infty} \mu(E_{i})$.

> Def. (**Finite measure**) $\mu(X)<\infty$.
> 
> Def. (**$\sigma$-finite measure**) $X=\bigcup E_{j}, s.t., \forall j, \mu(E_{j})<\infty$.
> 
> Def. (**Semifinite measure**) $\forall E\in \mathcal{M}, \mu(E)=\infty \to (\exists F \subset E, 0<\mu(F)<\infty)$ .
> 
> Def. (**Null set and "almost everywhere (a.e.)"**) E is a null set if $\mu(E)=0$. Proposition A is true almost everywhere if it is true on all but null set.

E.g. Given $f: X \to [0,\infty]$, we can define a measure by $\mu(E)=\sum_{x \in E} f(x)$.
1. It's semifinite iff $f(x)<\infty$.
2. It's $\sigma$-finite iff it's semifinite and $\{x:f(x)>0\}$ is countable.
3. It's called **counting measure** if for some $x_{0}\in X$, $f(x)=\mathbb{1}(x=x_{0})$.
4. It's called **point mass or Dirac measure** if $f(x)=1$.

Thm. Properties of measure:
1. (**Monotone**) $E, F \in  \mathcal{M}, E\subset F \implies \mu(E) \le \mu(F)$.
2. (**$\sigma$-subadditive**) $\mu(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} E_{j}) \le \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu(E_{j})$.
3. (**Continuity from below**) $E_{1} \subset E_{2} \dots \implies \mu(\cup E_{j})=\lim \mu(E_{j})$.
4. (**Continuity from above**) $E_{1} \supset E_{2} \dots; \mu(E_{1})<\infty \implies \mu(\cap E_{j})=\lim \mu(E_{j})$. The $\mu(E_{1})<\infty$ is to enable $\mu(E_{1} \setminus E_{j})=\mu(E_{1})-\mu(E_{j})$, in the convertion between union and intersection.

Prop. $\sigma$-finite implies semifinite. 

Proof. For every E s.t. $\mu(E)=\infty$, given $X=\cup E_{j}$, define $F_{j}:=E_{j} \cap E$. By subadditivity, $\infty = \mu(E)=\mu(\bigcup F_{j}) \le \sum \mu(F_{j})$, then $\exists j, \mu(F_{j})>0$. By monotoncity, $\mu(F_{j}) \le \mu(E_{j}) < \infty$. These two gives the $F:=F_{j}$ as the non-trivial measure subset for each $E$.

> Def. (**Complete**) A measure whose domain contains all subsets of null sets.

#NotCovered  THM1.9. Completion of measure.

### Continuity of measure (not covered)
> Def. (**Continuity of general measure**) $\mu$ is continuous if $\forall \{A_{n}\}, A_{n} \to A, n \to  \infty \longrightarrow \lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_{n}) = \mu(\lim_{n \to  \infty} A_n):=\mu(A)$. Notice the closeness under union&intersection gives that $A:=\limsup_{n}A_{n} \in \mathcal{F}$.

Thm. (**Countable additivity implies continuity**)

Proof. For all convergent sequence $\{A_{n}\}$, which means

1. Case1: monotonic increasing An ($A_{n-1} \subset A_{n}$)
Recall countable additivity, construct $D_{n}=A_{n} \setminus A_{n-1}$, then 

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mu(A)
&=\mu(\lim_{n \to  \infty} A_n)
:=\mu(\bigcup_{n=1}^ {\infty} \bigcap_{m=n}^ {\infty} A_{m}) \\
&=\mu(\bigcup_{n=1}^ {\infty} A_{n})
=\mu(\bigcup_{n=1}^ {\infty}D_{n})
\overset{(*)}{=} \sum_{n=1}^ {\infty} \mu(D_{n})\\
&=\lim_{n \to  \infty} \sum_{i=1}^{n} \mu(D_i)
=\lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(\bigcup_{i=1}^{n} D_i)
=\lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_n)
\end{aligned}
$$

2. Case2: monotonic decreasing An ($A_{n-1} \supset A_{n}$)
Construct $E_{n}=A_{n} \setminus A_{n+1}$, then 

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mu(A)
&:=\mu(\lim_{n \to  \infty} A_n)
:=\mu(\bigcap_{n=1}^ {\infty} \bigcup_{m=n}^ {\infty} A_{m}) \\
&=\mu(\bigcup_{n=1}^ {\infty} A_{n})
=\mu(\bigcup_{n=1}^ {\infty}E_{n})
\overset{(*)}{=} \sum_{n=1}^ {\infty} \mu(E_{n})\\
&=\lim_{n \to  \infty} \sum_{i=1}^{n} \mu(E_i)
=\lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(\bigcup_{i=1}^{n} E_i)
=\lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_n)
\end{aligned}
$$

3. Case3: general An
Recall $B_{n}=\bigcup_{m=n}^{ \infty} A_{m}, C_{n}=\bigcap_{m=n}^{ \infty} A_m$.
Clearly $C_{n} \subset A_{n}\subset B_{n}$, and that $B_{n}$ is monotonic decreasing, $C_{n}$ is monotonic increasing.
From case1, we know that 

$$\begin{align*}
\limsup_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_{n})
\le 
\lim_{n \to  \infty}\mu( B_{n})
=& \mu(\lim_{n \to  \infty} B_{n}) \\
=&\mu(B)
=\mu(A)
=\mu(C) \\
=&\mu(\lim_{n \to  \infty} C_{n})
=\lim_{n \to  \infty}\mu( C_{n})
\le \liminf_{n \to  \infty} \mu (A_{n})
\end{align*}
$$

However, $\limsup_{n \to  \infty} A_{n} \ge \liminf_{n \to  \infty} A_{n}$, 
therefore $\lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_{n}) = \limsup_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_{n}) = \liminf_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_{n})=\mu(A)$.

Conclusion: $\mu$ is a continuous set function.

Prop. (**Finite additivity + continuity iff countable additivity**)
Proof. (only => is needed) 
Recall continuity: $\forall \{A_{n}\}, A_{n} \to A, n \to  \infty \longrightarrow \lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu(A_{n}) = \mu(\lim_{n \to  \infty} A_n)=\mu(A)$
and (countable additivity) If $A_{1}, A_{2}, \dots$ is a collection of disjoint members of $\mathcal{F}$, then 

$$
\mu(\bigcup_{i=1}^ {\infty} A_{i})
=\mu( \lim_{n \to  \infty} \bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i}  )
= \lim_{n \to  \infty} \mu( \bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i}  )
= \lim_{n \to  \infty} \sum_{i=1}^ {n} \mu(A_{i}  )
=\sum_{i=1}^ {\infty} \mu(A_{i})
$$

## 1.4 Tools to construct measure
Motiv. In calculus, one defines area by marking grids inside and outside. Approximation from the outside is what we're going to build in the following.

> Def. (**Outer measure** on X) $\mu^{*}: \mathcal{P}(X) \to [0,\infty]$, s.t.
> 1. $\mu^{*}(\emptyset)=0$;
> 2. Monotonicity;
> 3. ($\sigma$-subadditivity) $\mu^{*}( \cup A_{j}) \le \sum \mu^{*}(A_{j})$.

Prop. (1.10) Let $\mathcal{E} \subset \mathcal{P}(X)$ be a family of "elementary sets" that we can later choose, and $\rho: \mathcal{E} \to [0,\infty]$, such that $\emptyset, X \in \mathcal{E}, \rho(\emptyset)=0$. These elementary sets are enough to define a outer measure:
$$
\mu^{*}(A):= \inf_{ \{E_{j}\} } \{ \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \rho(E_{j}): E_{j} \in \mathcal{E}, A \subset \bigcup_{j=1}^{\infty} E_{j} \}
$$

Proof. The first and the second condition come immediately from the definition of infimum. For the third one, again, consider $\mu^{*}(A_{j})$ as a infimum the largest lowerbound, then for any j and $\epsilon_j>0$, $\mu^{*}(A_{j})+\epsilon_{j}$ is not a lowerbound, therefore exists $\sum_{k=1}^{\infty} \rho(E_{j,k}) < \mu^{*}(A_{j})+\epsilon_{j}$. Suming up LHS gives a value that's less than $\sum \mu^{*}(A_{j})+\sum \epsilon_{j}$ but greater than $\mu^{*}( \cup A_{j})$. Let $\epsilon_{j}=\epsilon*2^{-j}$ and sending $\epsilon$ to 0 gives the desired inequality.

> Def. (**$\mu^{*}$-measurable**) A set $A \subset X$ is called $\mu^{*}$-measurable if
> $$ \forall E\subset X, \mu^{*}(E)=\mu^{*}(E\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap A^{c})$$

Motiv. This definition can be understood as, when A is "good", we can use A to evaluate any $E\subset X$, such that the inner measure of A (intersection of two, approximate from inside), $\mu^{*}(E\cap A)$, is equal to the outer measure of A, $\mu^{*}(E)-\mu^{*}(E\cap A^{c})$.

Rmk. Notice that to show a set is $\mu^{*}$-measurable, due to the subadditivity, it suffices to show 
$$
\forall E\subset X,s.t. \mu^{*}(E)<\infty, \mu^{*}(E) \ge \mu^{*}(E\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap A^{c})
$$

Thm. (**Caratheodory's thm**) If $\mu^{*}$ is an outer measure on X, then the collection $\mathcal{M}$ of $\mu^{*}$-measurable sets is a $\sigma$-algebra, and $\mu^{*}|_{\mathcal{M}}$ is a complete measure on measurable space $(X, \mathcal{M})$.

Proof.
1. $\mathcal{M}$ is an algebra: the goal is, given $A, B \in \mathcal{M}$, show that $\forall E\subset X,\mu^{*}(E)= \mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B))+\mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)^{c})$. Taking the fact that $A$ is $\mu^{*}$-measurable, and let E be the latter two respectively, 
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
    \mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B))
    =&\mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)\cap A^c)\\
    =&\mu^{*}(E\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap B\cap A^c)\\
    \mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)^c)
    =&\mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)^c\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)^c\cap A^c)\\
    =&\mu^{*}(E\cap (A \cup B)^c)=\mu^{*}(E\cap A^c \cap B^c)
    \end{aligned}
    $$
2. $\mathcal{M}$ is a $\sigma$-algebra: it suffices to prove it's closed under disjoint $\sigma$-union, and we only need to check one side of inequality. Define $B_{n}=\cup_{i=1}^{n} A_{n}$, 
$$
\begin{aligned}
\mu^{*}(E\cap B_{n})
&=\mu^{*}(E\cap B_{n}\cap A_{n})+\mu^{*}(E\cap B_{n}\cap A_{n}^{c}) \\
\text{given disjoint}, &=\mu^{*}(E\cap A_{n})+\mu^{*}(E\cap B_{n-1}) \\
\text{by induction}, &= \sum_{i=1}^{n} \mu^{*}(E\cap A_{i}) \\
\mu^{*}(E)
&=\mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{n} A_{i} ))+\mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{n} A_{i} )^{c}) \\
&\ge\mu^{*}(E \cap B_{n})+\mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} )^{c}) \\
&\ge\sum_{i=1}^{n} \mu^{*}(E \cap A_{i})+\mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} )^{c}) \\
\text{take limit}, & \ge \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \mu^{*}(E \cap A_{i})+\mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} )^{c}) \\
\text{by subadditivity}, &\ge \mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} ))+\mu^{*}(E \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} )^{c})
\end{aligned}
$$
3. $\mu^{*}|_{\mathcal{M}}$ is a measure: we now know $\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} \in \mathcal{M}$ is in the domain, which enable us to use the inequality above but with $\sigma$-union as E:
$$
\mu^{*}(\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} ) \ge\sum_{i=1}^{n} \mu^{*}((\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j} ) \cap A_{i})+\mu^{*}((\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} ) \cap (\cup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_{i} )^{c})
$$
The other side is again by $\sigma$-subadditivity.
4. $\mu^{*}|_{\mathcal{M}}$ is complete. Given $B \subset A,\mu^{*}(A)=\mu^{*}(B)=0$, $\forall E\subset X, \mu^{*}(E) \ge \mu^{*}(E\cap B^{c})=\mu^{*}(E\cap B)+\mu^{*}(E\cap B^{c})$.

> Def. (**Premeasure**) $\mu_{0}:\mathcal{A} \to [0,\infty]$, $\mathcal{A}$ is a algebra, with:
> 1. $\mu_{0}=0$;
> 2. Any $\{ A_{j} \}_{j=0}^{\infty} \subset A$ that are sequence of disjoint sets s.t. $\bigcup_{j=1}^{\infty}A_{j} \in \mathcal{A}$, then $\mu_{0}(\cup A_{j})=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}(A_{j})$.

Prop. Monotonicity of premeasure.

Prop. (1.13) By applying Prop. 1.10 with $\rho=\mu_{0}$, one can construct outermeasure $\mu^{*}:\mathcal{P}(X) \to [0,\infty]$, which extends the domain of $\mu_{0}$. Then,
1. $\mu^{*}|_\mathcal{A}=\mu_{0}$;
2. $\forall A \in \mathcal{A}$, $A$ is $\mu^{*}$-measurable.

Proof. 
1. (Recall) $\mu^{*}(D):= \inf_{ \{A_{j}\} } \{ \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}(A_{j}): A_{j} \in \mathcal{A}, D \subset \bigcup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j} \}$;
2. $\mu^{*}|_\mathcal{A} \le \mu_{0}$ is true since LHS is a lowerbound of a set containing $\mu_{0}(A)$ induced by sequence $\{ A, \emptyset, \emptyset, \emptyset, \dots \}$.
3. To show the other side, need to show the RHS is a lowerbound. We only have disjoint complete sequence additivity. For $A \in \mathcal{A}, \text{covering }\{A_{j}\}$, construct $B_{n}=A \cap (A_{n} \setminus \cup_{i<n} A_{i})$, then $\cup B_{i}=A \in \mathcal{A}$ given covering. Then $\mu_{0}(A)=\sum_{j} \mu_{0}(B_{j}) \le \sum_{j} \mu_{0}(A_{j})$.
4. Want to show: $\forall A \in \mathcal{A}, E \subset X, \mu^{*}(E) \ge \mu^{*}(E\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap A^{c})$. It suffices to show $\forall \epsilon>0, \mu^{*}(E)+\epsilon \ge \mu^{*}(E\cap A)+\mu^{*}(E\cap A^{c})$. The LHS isn't a lowerbound, therefore exists covering $\{A_{j}\} \subset \mathcal{A}$ s.t.
$$
\begin{aligned}
\mu^{*}(E)+\epsilon 
&>\sum_{j} \mu_{0}(A_{j}) \\
\text{By disjoint additivity}, &= \sum_{j} \mu_{0}(A_{j} \cap A)+\mu_{0}(A_{j} \cap A^{c}) \\
&= \sum_{j} \mu^{*}(A_{j} \cap A)+\mu^{*}(A_{j} \cap A^{c}) \\
\text{By subadditivity}, &\ge  \mu^{*}(\cup_{j} (A_{j} \cap A))+\mu^{*}(\cup_{j} (A_{j} \cap A^{c}))\\
&=\mu^{*}(E \cap A)+\mu^{*}(E \cap A^c)
\end{aligned}
$$

Thm. (1.14) Algebra $\mathcal{A}$, $\sigma$-algebra $\mathcal{M}:=\mathcal{M(A)}$, premeasure $\mu_{0}$ on $\mathcal{A}$, and $\mu^{*}$ the outermeasure given in last thm. Then:
1. $\mu:=\mu^{*}|_{\mathcal{M}}$ is a measure on $\mathcal{M}$; (This gives the existence of measure extending $\mu_{0}$)
2. Any other measure $\tilde \mu$ that extends $\mu_{0}$ has $\forall E \in \mathcal{M}, \tilde \mu(E) \le \mu(E)$, with equality when $\mu(E)<\infty$.
3. If $\mu_{0}$ is $\sigma$-finite, then $\mu$ is unique. (This gives the uniqueness of measure extending $\mu_{0}$ under stronger condition)

Proof. 
1. Let $\mathcal{B}$ the collection of $\mu^{*}$-measurable sets. By C-thm, $\mathcal{B}$ is a $\sigma$-algebra and $\mu^{*}|_{\mathcal{B}}$ is a measure. By Prop 1.13, $\mathcal{A} \subset \mathcal{B}$, and $\mathcal{M}$ is the smallest $\sigma$-algebra containing A, therefore $\mathcal{M} \subset \mathcal{B}$, $\mu^{*}|_{\mathcal{M}}$ is a measure.
2. Goal: $\forall E \in \mathcal{M}, \tilde \mu(E) \le \mu(E)$. Notice that for any covering $\{A_{j}\} \subset \mathcal{A}$ of E, $\tilde \mu(E) \le \tilde \mu(\cup A_{j}) \le \sum \tilde \mu(A_{j})=\sum \mu_{0}(A_{j})=\sum \mu(A_{j})$, therefore a lowerbound, which is not greater than the greatest lowerbound $\mu^{*}$.
3. Claim $\mu^{*}(\cup A_{j})=\tilde \mu(\cup A_{j})$: since both are measure extending $\mu_{0}$ defined on $\mathcal{A}$ where finite union is closed, consider using contituity by $$\begin{aligned}\mu^{*}(\cup A_{j})=\lim \mu^{*}(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j})=\lim \mu^{*}(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j}) \\ =\lim \mu_{0}(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j})=\lim \tilde \mu(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j})=\tilde \mu(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} A_{j}) \end{aligned}$$.
4. Goal: $\forall E \in \mathcal{M}, \tilde \mu(E) \ge \mu(E)$ when $\mu(E)<\infty$. Notice that for any covering $\{A_{j}\} \subset \mathcal{A}$ of E, $\mu^{*}(E) \le \mu^{*}(\cup A_{j})=\tilde \mu(\cup A_{j})=\tilde \mu(E)+\tilde \mu(\cup A_{j} \setminus E)$. It suffices to show that $\tilde \mu(\cup A_{j} \setminus E) \le \epsilon$ for any $\epsilon>0$, and further more, $\mu^{*}(\cup A_{j} \setminus E) \le \epsilon$, given part 2. Consider adding $\epsilon$ to the infimum, i.e.  $\forall\epsilon>0$, there's a covering $\{A_{j}\} \subset \mathcal{A}$ of E, s.t. $\mu^{*}(E)+\mu^{*}(\cup A_{j} \setminus E)=\mu^{*}(\cup A_{j}) \le \sum \mu_{0}(A_{j}) < \mu^{*}(E)+\epsilon$. When $\mu(E)<\infty$, subtracting it on both sides gives the desired.
5. Goal: $\forall E \in \mathcal{M}, \tilde \mu(E)=\mu(E)$. Recall definition, $X=\cup A_{j}$, s.t. $A_{j} \in \mathcal{A}, \mu_{0}(A_{j})<\infty$. Make it disjoint by $B_{j}:=A_{j} \setminus (\cup_{k<j} A_{k})$ to have a partition of E. Then $\tilde \mu(E)=\sum \tilde \mu(E \cap B_{j})=\sum \mu(E \cap B_{j})=\mu(E)$, given part 4.

## 1.5 Borel measure on $\mathbb{R}$
Recall. $\mathcal{B_{\mathbb{R}}}:=\mathcal{M}(G)$.

> Def. 
> 1. **Open invervals** $\mathcal{A_{0}}:=\{ (a,b) : -\infty \le a < b \le +\infty \}$;
> 2. **h-intervals** $\mathcal{A_{h}}:=\{ (a,b]: -\infty \le a < b < +\infty \} \cup \{ (a, \infty) : -\infty \le a < +\infty  \} \cup \{\emptyset \}$
> 3. $\mathcal{A_{2}}:=$ finite union of disjoint h-intervals.

Prop. $\mathcal{M(A_{0})}=\mathcal{M(A_{h})}=\mathcal{M(A_{2})}=\mathcal{M}(G):=\mathcal{B_\mathbb{R}}$.

Proof. By lemma 1.1, it suffices to show that $\mathcal{A_{0}}, \mathcal{A_{h}},\mathcal{A_{2}} \subset \mathcal{M}(G), \mathcal{A}(G) \subset \mathcal{M(A_{0})} \cap \mathcal{M(A_{h})}\cap \mathcal{M(A_{2})}$.

Prop. $\mathcal{A_{2}}$ is a algebra.

Thm. $F:\mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}$ (non-strictly) increasing and right-continuous. We can construct premeasure $\mu_{0}$ by $\mu_{0}(\emptyset)=0$ and $\mu_{0}(\cup_{j=1}^{n} (a_{j},b_{j}])=\sum_{i=1}^{n} F(b_{j})-F(a_{j})$ where $(a_{j}, b_{j}]$ are disjoint.

Proof.
1. Goal: $\mu_{0}$ is well-defined (consistent with different union partition). Draw diagram.
2. Goal: For any disjoint sequence s.t. $\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j} \in \mathcal{A_{2}}$, we have $\mu_{0}(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j}) = \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}(I_{j})$. Since the union is in $\mathcal{A_{2}}$, it can be expressed in a finite union of disjoint h-intervals. By considering each h-interval as a trunk, the sequence can be partitioned into **finitely many subsequences**, each is with a trunk and disjoint to others. With finite additivity and relabelling, consider each trunk and corresponding subsequence seperately, WOLG, say $I:=\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j}:=(a,b]$.  For $I_{j}=(a_{j}, b_{j}]$, discard contained ones to get disjoint intervals.
3. Goal: For $I:=\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j}:=(a,b]$, show $\mu_{0}(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j}) \le \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}(I_{j})$. It's obvious given monotonicity.
4. Goal: For $I:=\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j}:=(a,b]$, show $\mu_{0}(\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} I_{j}) \ge \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}(I_{j})$.
    - First suppose a and b  are finite. Recall that any open set on real line can be expressed as countable union of disjoint open intervals, and a open cover of a compact set on real line (closed) can be reduced to a finite yet valid subcover. 
    - To have open interval and compact set from h-interval, we make use of right-continuity, which gives us that $\forall \epsilon>0, \exists \delta>0, F(a+\delta)-F(a) < \epsilon$, and further more, $\forall j, \exists \delta_{j}, F(b_{j}+\delta_{j})-F(b_{j}) < \epsilon \cdot 2^{-j}$. Now we can adjust the boundary of sets.
    - Extend $I$ from $(a,b]$ into $[a+\delta, b]$, which is compact, and extend $I_{j}$ from $(a_{j}, b_{j}]$ into $(a_{j}, b_{j}+\delta_{j})$. To simpify, we can adjust so that we have $b_{j}+\delta_{j} \in (a_{j+1}, b_{j+1})$. Now that we have an open cover $I \subset \cup_{j=1}^{\infty} (a_{j}, b_{j}+\delta_{j})$, we obtain a finite subcover (with relabelling) $I \subset \cup_{j=1}^{n} (a'_{j}, b'_{j}+\delta_{j})$. Summing up $$\begin{aligned} \mu_{0}((a'_{j}, b'_{j}])&=F(b'_{j})-F(a'_{j}) \\&\ge F(b'_{j}+\delta_{j})-F(a'_{j})-\epsilon \cdot 2^{-j} \\&\ge F(a'_{j+1})-F(a'_{j})-\epsilon \cdot 2^{-j} \end{aligned}$$, we get $$\begin{aligned}\sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}(I_{j}) &\ge \sum_{j=1}^{n} \mu_{0}((a'_{j}, b'_{j}]) \\&\ge F(b'_{n}+\delta_{n})-F(a'_{1})-\epsilon \\&\ge F(b)-F(a+\delta)-\epsilon \\&\ge F(b)-F(a)-2\epsilon \\&=\mu_{0}(I)-2\epsilon\end{aligned}$$.
    - Corner case of a, b being infinite is omitted.

Thm. Given F increasing and right-continuous, then
1. There's a unique Borel measure $\mu_{F}$ on $\mathbb{R}$ s.t. $\mu_{F}((a,b])=F(b)-F(a)$. To be explicit, $\mu_{F}=\inf \{ \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu_{0}((a_{j}, b_{j}]) : E \subset \cup_{j=1}^{\infty} (a_{j}, b_{j}] \}$.
2. If other distribution function G, then $\mu_{F}=\mu_{G}$ iff $F-G$ is constant.
3. Conversely, if $\mu$ is a Borel measure on $\mathbb{R}$ that is finite on all bounded Borel sets, and we define $F(x)=\mu((0,x]), x>0$, $F(0)=0$, $F(x)=-\mu((x,0]), x<0$, then F is increasing and right continuous, and $\mu=\mu_F$.

Proof.
1. The constructed $\mu_{0}$ is $\sigma$-finite, since $\mathbb{R}=\cup_{-\infty}^{\infty} (j, j+1]$. Then it follows from the Thm 1.14;
2. $\mu_{F}=\mu_{G} \iff \forall a,b, F(b)-G(b)=F(a)-G(a)$.
3. Take $x>0$ as example. The monotonicity is from the monotonicity of F, and the right-continuous can be get from the continuity. $\mu$ and $\mu_{F}$ is the same on $\mathcal{A_{2}}$, therefore the same on $\mathcal{B_{\mathbb{R}}}$.

Rmk. 
1. The collection $\mathcal{M}_\mu$ of $\mu^{*}$-measurable in Caratheodory's thm is the largest (in fact strictly larger than $\mathcal{B_\mathbb{R}}$, denoted as $\mathcal{E}$) gives the domain of the completion of $\mu_{F}$ (Ex22a), which is called the **Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure** associated to F.
2. When $F(x)=x$, the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure associated is called the **Lebesgue measure** $m$. The domain is denoted as $\mathcal{L}$.

Lemma. (1.17) $\mu|_\mathcal{E}(E)=\inf \{ \sum_{j=1}^{\infty} \mu((a_{j}, b_{j})): E \subset \cup_{j=1}^{\infty} (a_{j}, b_{j}) \}$.

Proof. Say the RHS is $\tilde \mu(E)$.
1. Goal: $\mu(E) \le \tilde \mu(E)$. Since $(a, b)=\cup_{n=1}^{\infty} (a, b-\frac{1}{n}]$, $E \subset \cup (a_{j}, b_{j}) \subset \cup \cup (a_{j}, b_{j}- \frac{1}{n})$, therefore the set in left contains the set in right;
2. Goal: $\mu(E) +\epsilon \ge \tilde \mu(E), \forall \epsilon>0$. Use right-continuity. $$\begin{aligned}\exists \{(a_{j}, b_{j}]\}, \mu(E)+\epsilon &\ge \sum \mu_{0}((a_{j}, b_{j}])=\sum  F(b_{j})-F(a_{j}) \\&\ge \sum  F(b_{j}+\delta_{j})-F(a_{j})-\epsilon \cdot 2^{-j} \\&=-\epsilon+\sum  \mu_{0}((a_{j}, b_{j}+\delta_{j}]) \\& \ge -\epsilon+\sum  \mu((a_{j}, b_{j}+\delta_{j})) \\& \ge -\epsilon + \tilde \mu(E) \end{aligned}$$

Thm. (1.18) $\mu|_\mathcal{E}(E)=\inf\{ \mu(U):U \supset E, U\ open \}=\sup\{ \mu(K):K \subset E, K\ compact \}$. This is so important that it's used as definition in some textbooks.

Proof. Say, to show $\mu(E)=\tilde \mu(E)=\mu'(E)$, with the formula given in lemma 1.17:
1. Goal: $\mu(E) \le \tilde \mu(E)$. This is because $\mu(E) \le \mu(U), \forall U$;
2. Goal: $\mu(E) +\epsilon \ge \tilde \mu(E), \forall \epsilon>0$. Again, $\exists \{(a_{j}, b_{j}]\}, \mu(E)+\epsilon \ge \sum \mu((a_{j}, b_{j})) \ge \mu(\cup (a_{j}, b_{j})) \ge \tilde \mu(E)$.
3. Goal: $\mu(E) \ge \mu'(E)$. The same as 1.
4. Goal: $\mu(E) \le \mu'(E)$. Use the first equality.
    1. If E is bounded:
        1. Subcase: If E is compact. Just take K:=E.
        2. Subcase: If otherwise. Consider $\bar E \setminus E$, then by the first equality, $\exists open\ U \supset \bar E \setminus E, s.t. \mu(\bar E \setminus E)+\epsilon > \mu(U)$. Let $K=\bar E \setminus U$, then it's compact and $K \subset E$. $$\begin{aligned}\mu(K)&=\mu(E)-\mu(E \cap U)=\mu(E)-(\mu(U)-\mu(U \setminus E))\\&=\mu(E)-\mu(U)+\mu(U \setminus E) \\&\ge \mu(E)-\mu(U)+\mu(\bar E \setminus E) \ge \mu(E)-\epsilon \end{aligned}$$
    2. If E is unbounded, partition it as $E_{j}=E \cap (j, j+1]$. By case 1, $\forall \epsilon>0, \exists K_{j}\subset E_{j}, s.t. \mu(K_{j})\ge \mu(E_{j})-\epsilon \cdot 2^{-|j|}$. $\mu'(E) \ge \mu(\cup_{-n}^{n} K_{j}) \ge \mu(\cup_{-n}^{n} E_{j}) -\epsilon$.

Thm. (1.19) If $E \subset \mathbb{R}$, then TFAE:
1. $E \in \mathcal{E}$;
2. $E=V \setminus N_{1}$, where $V \in G_{\delta}, \mu(N_{1})=0$;
3. $E=H \cup N_{2}$, where $H \in F_{\sigma}, \mu(N_{2})=0$.

Proof. We know $V, H \in \mathcal{E}$. Since $\mu$ is complete on $\mathcal{E}$, all $N_{1}, N_{2} \in \mathcal{E}$, and $\sigma$-algebra is closed under countable union and intersection, (2) and (3) each imply (1). Now to show the converse,
1. Suppose $\mu(E)<\infty$. Based on thm 1.18, for $j \in \mathbb{N}$, we can have open $U_{j} \supset E$ and compact $K_{j} \subset E$, s.t. $\mu(U_{j})-2^{-j} \le \mu(E) \le \mu(K_{j})+ 2^{-j}$. Let $V:= \cap U_{j}, H:=\cup K_{j}$, then $H \subset E \subset V$. While $\mu(E) \le \mu(V) \le \mu(U_{j}) \le \mu(E)+2^{-j}, \forall j$ and $\mu(E)-2^{-j} \le \mu(K_{j}) \le \mu(H) \le \mu(E)$, we can have $\mu(H)=\mu(E)=\mu(V)<\infty$. $N_{1}:=V \setminus E, N_{2}:=E \setminus H$, then $\mu(N_{1})=\mu(V)-\mu(E)=0, \mu(N_{2})=\mu(E)-\mu(H)=0$.
2. Otherwise. Again, the constructed $\mu_{0}$, is $\sigma$-finite, since $\mathbb{R}=\cup_{-\infty}^{\infty} (j, j+1]$, and therefore $E_{j}:=E \cap (j, j+1], \mu(E_{j})<\infty, E=\cup E_{j}$.
    1. Notice that (1)->(3) implies (1)->(2). So we only need to show the former.
    2. Consider the partition, in which we have $E_{j}=H_{j} \cup N_{j}$. Let $H:=\cup H_{j}, N=\cup N_{j}$. Then $E=\cup (H_{j} \cup N_{j})=H \cup N$.

Prop. (1.20) If $E \in \mathcal{E}, \mu(E)<\infty$, then $\forall \epsilon>0, \exists A$ that is a finite union of open intervals such that $\mu(E \bigtriangleup A) < \epsilon$.

Proof. Based on thm 1.18, we can have open $U \supset E$ and compact $K \subset E$, s.t. $\mu(U) \le \mu(E) \le \mu(K)+ \epsilon$. Since $U=\cup_{j=1}^{\infty} (a_{j}, b_{j})$ gives a open cover of compact set K, we can have the subcover $A:=\cup_{j=1}^{n} (a_{j}, b_{j}) \supset K$. Then $\mu(E)-\epsilon \le \mu(K) \le \mu(A) \le \mu(U) \le \mu(E)+\epsilon$ and $\mu(E)-\epsilon \le \mu(K) \le \mu(A \cap E) \le \mu(U) \le \mu(E)+\epsilon$. Then $|\mu(E)-\mu(A)| \le \epsilon, |\mu(E)-\mu(A \cap E)| \le \epsilon$, which means $$\begin{aligned}&\mu(E \bigtriangleup A)\\&\le \mu(E \setminus A)+\mu(A \setminus E)\\&=\mu(A)-\mu(E)+\mu(E)-\mu(A \cap E)+\mu(E)-\mu(A \cap E) \\&\le 3\epsilon\end{aligned}$$.

Prop. For any $E \in \mathcal{L}$, we have $E+s, rE \in \mathcal{L}$, and $\mu(E+s)=\mu(E), \mu(rE)=|r|\mu(E)$. 

Proof. They agree on the algebra, and by uniqueness of thm 1.14 (3), they also agree on $\mathcal{B_{\mathbb{R}}}$. Further more, since Lebesgue measure zero is preserved by translations and diluations, by thm 1.19, they agree on $\mathcal{L}$. #TODO 

E.g. (**Cantor set** C) Repeadly remove the middle thirds open interval, starting from $[0,1]$. It's compact, totally disconnected, no where dense, no isolated points, $m(C)=0$, and $0, 1 \in C$. Moreover, it's uncountable and with the cardinality of $\mathbb{R}$. This can be proved by constructing $f:C \to [0,1]$ and let it onto. $f: \sum a_{j} 3^{-j} \mapsto \sum \frac{a_{j}}{2}2^{-j}$.

Thm. If $F \subset \mathbb{R}$, s.t. $\forall G \subset F, G \in \mathcal{L}$, then $m(F)=0$.

Cor. (**Existence of non-measurable set**) For F that $m(F)>0$, $\exists G \subset F, G \notin \mathcal{L}$.

> Def. (**Coset**) A coset of $\mathbb{Q}$ in additive group $(\mathbb{R}, +)$ is $\mathbb{Q}+x$, where $x \in \mathbb{R}$.

Proof of Thm.
1. Let E be the set that contains exactly one point from each coset. The existence of E is given by the axiom of choice.
2. Claim: $\forall r_{1}, r_{2} \in \mathbb{Q}, r_{1} \ne r_{2} \to (E+r_{1}) \cap (E+r_{2})=\emptyset$. Otherwise, that means $e_{1}, e_{2}\in E, e_{1}\ne e_{2}, e_{1}-e_{2}\in \mathbb{Q}$, contradicts with the "exactly one point".
3. Claim: $\mathbb{R} = \cup_{r \in \mathbb{Q}} (E+r)$. For any $x \in \mathbb{R}$, there's a coset $\mathbb{Q}+x$, in which E contains exactly an element $q+x$. Then $x=q+x+(-q)$ will be contained in $E+(-q)$, which is when $r=-q$, in the union.
4. Now $F=F \cap \mathbb{R}=\cup_{r \in \mathbb{Q}} (F \cap (E+r))=\cup F_{r}$, it suffices to show $m(F_{r})=0$. Given that $m(F_{r})=\sup\{ m(K): compact\ K \subset F_{r} \}$, this holds iff $\forall compact\ K\subset F_{r},m(K)=0$. We're going to use the fact that K is bounded.
5. Suppose not, i.e. there's a K, s.t. $m(K)>0$. Due to to the same reason as 2, we have $\forall r_{1}, r_{2} \in \mathbb{Q}, r_{1} \ne r_{2} \to (K+r_{1}) \cap (K+r_{2}) = \emptyset$. Note that it's still bounded after translation. Further more, let's bound the translation scale. Let $H=\cup_{r \in \mathbb{Q} \cap [0,1]} (K+r)$, which is a disjoint union of bounded set and should be bounded as a whole (within the union of $(-M_{r}, M_{r})$). Yet since every summand in this $\sigma$-additivity (infinite) summation, $m(K+r)>0$, we have $m(H)=\infty$, contradict.

# Ch2 Integration
## 2.1 Measurable function
Motiv. $f^{-1}(E)=\{ x \in X:f(x) \in E \}$ preserves unions, intersections, and complements. $f^{-1}(\mathcal{B})$ and $\mathcal{M}=\{ E \in \mathcal{B} : f^{-1}(E) \in \mathcal{A} \}$ are $\sigma$-algebra.

> Def. (**Measurable function**) Measurable space $(X, \mathcal{A}), (Y, \mathcal{B})$, we say $f:X \to Y$ is $(\mathcal{A,B})$-measurable if $\mathcal{f^{-1}(\mathcal{B}) \subset A}$, or equivalently, $\mathcal{M} \supset \mathcal{B}$.

Rmk. 
1. Random variables are special cases of measurable function.
2. Composition of measurable mappings are measurable.

Prop. (2.1) $f:X \to Y$ is $(\mathcal{A,B})$-measurable iff $\mathcal{M} \supset \mathcal{B_{0}}$, where $\mathcal{M}( B_{0})=\mathcal{B}$.

Proof. $\mathcal{M}$ is a $\sigma$-algebra, and $\mathcal{M \supset B_{0}} \implies \mathcal{M \supset \mathcal{M}( B_{0})=B}$.

Cor. Let X, Y be metric or topological spaces, then every continuous $f:X \to Y$ is $(\mathcal{B}_{X},  \mathcal{B}_{Y} )$-measuable.

Proof. Recall that $f:X \to Y$ is continuous on X iff for any open set U in Y, $f^{-1}(U)$ is open in X. By prop 2.1, it follows.

Thm. Based on prop 1.2 and 2.1, T.F.A.E:
1. $f:X \to \mathbb{R}$ is $\mathcal{A}$-measuable.
2. $\{(a, \infty): \forall a \in \mathbb{R}\} \subset \mathcal{M}$.
3. $\{[a, \infty): \forall a \in \mathbb{R}\} \subset \mathcal{M}$.
4. $\{(-\infty, a): \forall a \in \mathbb{R}\} \subset \mathcal{M}$.
5. $\{(-\infty, a]: \forall a \in \mathbb{R}\} \subset \mathcal{M}$.
6. If $f: X \to \bar{ \mathbb{R}}$, change the above as including infinity.

Thm. If $f, g$ are $\mathcal{A}$-measurable, then $f+g, fg$ are $\mathcal{A}$-measurable.

Proof. Work on level sets. Consider $fg=\frac{1}{2}((f+g)^{2} -f^{2} -g^{2})$.

Def. $\mathcal{B}_{\bar{\mathbb{R}}}=\{ E \subset \bar{\mathbb{R}} : E \cap \mathbb{R} \subset \mathcal{B}_{\mathbb{R}} \}$.